# Bike-demand-prediction-for-Marseille
This project aims to improve mobility and the public experience through anticipatory bicycle rental programs in the city of Marseille. One of the main challenges facing the Aix-Marseille Metropolis today is to maintain a constant and spontaneous supply of transport for its inhabitants. It is in this context that, in addition to the various means of transport already in existence, it has set up the self-service bicycle system (Levélo). It's an excellent way of relieving the need for metropolitan dwellers to get around quickly, reducing congestion on the roads and at the same time having a very low environmental impact. Once these bikes have been adopted by the population, the challenge is to respond effectively to demand by making bikes available to users in the right place, at the right time and in the right quantity. As part of our work, we propose to provide a solution to this problem by predicting the demand for bicycles in the metropolis at an hourly frequency, according to meteorological and temporal variables. Based on weather forecasts for the city of Marseille, we will predict the number of bicycles that will be requested for rental.

* There were approximately 13107 records and 20 attributes in the dataset.
* We started by importing the dataset, and necessary libraries and conducted exploratory data analysis (EDA).
* Outliers and null values were removed from the raw data and treated. Data were transformed to ensure that it was compatible with machine learning models.
* We handled target class imbalance using square root normalization.
* Then finally cleaned and scaled data was sent to 11 various models, the metrics were made to evaluate the model, and we tuned the hyperparameters to make sure the right parameters were being passed to the model. 
* When developing a machine learning model, it is generally recommended to track multiple metrics because each one highlights distinct aspects of model performance. We are, focusing more on the R2 score and RMSE score. 
*  The R2 score is scale-independent, which means that it can be used to compare models that are fit to different target variables or to target variables that have different units of measurement. This is particularly useful when comparing models for different problems, as it allows for a direct comparison of the performance of the models, regardless of the scale of the target variable
